# Constitution

### Preamble
We the People of Vojes Enterprises (VE) and the lot of those among us as a part of this common union, ordain and establish this work as the constitution of STEM Cell (SC), formally incorporated as VE Spaces, in order to conduct proper operation, form order of the union, provide civil action, and further establish privileges for those collectively gathered under STEM Cell.

### Article I: Moderators
Moderators, also known as mods, of STEM Cell are the head of legislation for the union. Moderators are voted in by executors. The first and most important privilege of the moderators is the ability to make proposals for rule and legislation in the Code of Conduct (CoC). The second privilege of the moderators is to provide inquisition and suggest recommendation to the executors. The third privilege to vote on any proposal for the legislation to pass. These privileges dually act as voluntary duties for the union to be commemorated at the end of their service. However, moderators do not have the privilege to interpret the rules for judgement or to enact consequence or punishment. Moderators also cannot finalize additions or remove rules from the Code of Conduct. 

All forms of legislation must start as a proposal. All proposals must be voted by the moderators before being passed as legislation. Before the voting process begins, one admin must initialize the process by signing. Any proposal is either the addition of one new rule or the repeal of use for one existing rule. To pass any legislation, five-eighths of the total moderators must vote for it to pass in order to enact the legislation. This is to ensure a supermajority is present and that no small majority erodes a larger majority’s privileges. A list of moderators will be kept to calculate proposals. Every moderator can only vote once.

All rules are enacted as soon as the threshold of voters for the proposal is met. The rules are numbered and ordered in chronological order in a Code of Conduct with the date that it was added, the title of the proposed rule, and the rule itself as subtext. Signed beneath every rule description will be both voting moderators, also known as voters, for or against the proposal when the rule is enacted into the Code of Conduct. Each signature will be prepended by a “yay” or “nay” for whether they voted for the proposal to be enacted. This is to ensure a valid number of voters were present, the percentage of voters was true to pass, and for evidence of the legislation being passed so that any person’s signature can be queried for proof. After a rule is passed, any moderator that did not get to vote can sign in approval to strengthen the rule. No additional moderators can vote “nay” after the proposal’s threshold is passed.

All repeal of use for any rule is immediately enacted as soon as the threshold of voters for the proposal is met. The title of the rule will be prepended by an “X” when the rule is repealed from use. Under the title will be a separate list of signatures of voters for or against the proposal. Each signature will be prepended by a “yay” or “nay” for whether they voted for the proposal to be enacted. Similar to above, this is to ensure a valid number of voters were present, the percentage of voters was true to pass, and for evidence of the legislation being passed so that any person’s signature can be queried for proof. After a rule is repealed from use, any moderator that did not get to vote can sign for approval. This is to only show the moderator’s appreciation of the rule. No additional moderators can vote “nay” after the proposal’s threshold is passed.

### Article II: Admins
Admins, also known as judges, of STEM Cell are the head of judiciary action for the union. Admins are voted in by executors. The first privilege of the admins is the ability to interpret the Code of Conduct with each of its rules in his/her own way. The second privilege of the admins is the ability to judge and sentence consequences or punishments of anyone, including executors and moderators, according to their interpretation of the Code of Conduct. The third privilege is to judge other admins to see if their interpretation was valid. These privileges dually act as voluntary duties for the union to be commemorated at the end of their service. However, admins do not have the privilege to propose new rules or remove them.

All judgements must follow the Code of Conduct for which all rules are held. Despite admins having the freedom to interpret the Code of Conduct, their judgements and sentencing will be overseen by other admins. If two-thirds of the active admins vote that the judgement was poorly interpreted, the admin can be removed of his/her role as an admin. If two-thirds of the admins vote that the sentencing was improper or unnecessary, the admin can be sentenced a punishment or consequence deemed worthy by the other admins. The majority vote of all proposed consequences will be deemed the proper consequence or punishment. Every admin can only vote once.

A list of admins will be kept. Only the active admins will be on the list along with the date he/she was enacted as admin. The activity of any admin is judged by the other admins. It is important to remove inactive admins to make sure the above two-thirds votes is truly and accurately two-thirds of the admins. This is to ensure that it is not too difficult to remove or judge any admin. In the list, all removals of admins will also be included at the bottom with a brief description of the reason. This is to track just removals against improper removals. 

### Article III: Executors
Executors, also known as overseers, of STEM Cell are the head of the executive action for the union. All executors directly derive power from Vojes Enterprises, so all executors must be employees of VE. The first privilege of the executors is the ability to veto any rule in the Code of Conduct and ensuring consequence and punishments have followed through. The second privilege is the ability to call a jury to judge the admin(s) and to judge the jury. The third privilege is to vote in admins and moderators into position. These privileges dually act as voluntary duties for the union to be commemorated at the end of their service.

Rules are finalized by an executor after the proposal is passed to ensure that the executors will not veto the rule. After a rule is repealed from use by the moderators, an executor can sign thus vetoing the proposal and putting the rule once again in action. After any changes made by the executor, the executor must alert the admins and moderators. This is to ensure that all new laws to the Code of Conduct are live. And removals are only truly made by the executors.

Consequences and punishment can be enforced in one of two ways. The direct route is for the executor to proceed with the consequences or punishment as decided by the admin(s). The indirect route is for the executor to put the admin(s) through trial in court to ensure due process.

Any executor can vote an admin or moderator into power with majority vote. Tie breakers are settled by rolling a six sided die. Odd numbered executors cannot be ensured due to there being an extremely low number of executors which is encouraged. Chance will be the deciding factor in a tie vote. Each side of the executors will pick higher or lower. If the die lands with a one, two, or three face up then the die is in favor of lower pick. If the die lands with a four, five, or six face up then the die is in the favor of the higher pick. The winner of the die’s vote will be the vote that is enacted.

### Article IV: Entity and Status
STEM Cell has no legal entity, so relying on a separate entity for legal representation is crucial. STEM Cell requires legal power for authentical, legal representation to derive its governance from in a real court of law. STEM Cell needs ensured free and open-source nature and action, but with protection and security through copyright, trademarking, and licensing. STEM Cell also needs funding, internal justice, and handling of other business affairs.

Although STEM Cell does not exist as a legal entity, Vojes Enterprises has been formally incorporated thus registered as a legal entity. Underneath VE is a subsidiary, VE Spaces, which is given to STEM Cell so that SC may have a legal representation; this is how SC receives legal power. Despite that VE owns VE Spaces, SC is still community driven by a common union. 
STEM Cell’s projects remain and forever will be free and open source; no privilege is granted for VE to have proprietary ownership or absorption of any SC related projects. However, all SC projects will have Vojes Enterprise copyrights so that SC may have authentic, legal representation. This is for the protection and security of SC in a real court.

VE elects the executor(s) to ensure and monitor the political structure of STEM Cell to apply order and justice to its projects and operations. SC’s operations and other projects remain outside of VE’s control. Monetary grants will be given from Vojes Enterprises to fund the operation of STEM Cell’s projects. This is to remove the complex burdens of politics, funding, and other business related affairs from STEM Cell.

### Article V: Amendments
Amendments are public privileges given to the common union of STEM Cell or legislation to change any part of the Constitution including the Amendments. The process of amending starts by a proposal by the moderators. An admin must sign to initiate the voting process. The proposal is voted on by the moderators to pass. Finally, the executor signs the proposal once the required votes are met.
Admins sign the amendment proposal first to ensure that the proposal does not conflict with the existing Code of Conduct, Articles of the Constitution, or other Amendments. Only one signature of an admin is required to initialize the proposal process. It is the duty of the admins who are allowed to interpret legislation. Neither the executors nor moderators may initialize an amendment proposal.

Moderators will vote on the amendment proposal. Two-thirds of the moderators are required to amend the proposal. This is to ensure the supermajority slightly higher than that of the proposals for the Code of Conduct. It is the duty of the moderators to vote on legislation. Neither the executors or admins may vote on the proposal.
Executors will finally sign the amendment proposal in approval to finalize or veto it altogether. It is the duty of the executor to veto or approve any legislation. Neither the admins or the moderators may veto or finalize the proposal.

The amendment will be added to the list of the amendments below as part of the Constitution. The amendments are numbered and ordered in chronological order with the date that it was added, the title of the amendment, and the amendment itself as subtext. Signed beneath every amendment description will be both voting moderators, also known as voters, for or against the proposal when the amendment is enacted into the Constitution. Each signature will be prepended by a “yay” or “nay” for whether they voted for the proposal to be enacted. This is to ensure a valid number of voters were present, the percentage of voters was true to pass, and for evidence of the legislation being passed so that any person’s signature can be queried for proof. After an amendment is passed, any moderator that did not get to vote can sign in approval to strengthen the amendment. No additional moderators can vote “nay” after the proposal’s threshold is passed.

# Amendments

### Amendment I
Members and the server have the privilege to an identity. One may not impersonate any of the members or the server.
